Updated tutorial to use Filebeat and Datastreams rather than Logstash… (#132052)
elastic/kibana: docs/maps/asset-tracking-tutorial.asciidoc

You’ll learn to:

> - Use Filebeat to ingest the TriMet REST API into Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: Use this shared attribute to refer to Filebeat throughout the doc.

```suggestion
- Use {filebeat} to ingest the TriMet REST API into Elasticsearch.
```

Author: Ahh wicked I didnt know this was a thing, thank you

- If you don’t already have {kib}, set it up with https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup?baymax=docs-body&elektra=docs[our free trial]. Download the deployment credentials.
- Obtain an API key for https://developer.trimet.org/[TriMet web services] at https://developer.trimet.org/appid/registration/.
- https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation-configuration.html[Install Filebeat].

[float]
=== Part 1: Ingest the Portland bus data

> To get to the fun of visualizing and alerting on Portland buses, you must first create a Filebeat input to ingest the TriMet Portland bus data into {es}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get to the fun of visualizing and alerting on Portland buses, you must first create a {filebeat} input to ingest the TriMet Portland bus data into {es}.
```

[float]
==== Step 1: Set up an Elasticsearch index

. In Kibana, open the main menu, then click *Dev Tools*.

> . In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index lifecyle policy. This policy will keep the events in the hot data phase for 7 days at the end of which moves the data to the warm phase, after 365 days in the warm phase the data is delete. 

Reviewer 2: How about "deleted" instead of "delete"?

Author: Another great spot. :)

> . In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index lifecyle policy. This policy will keep the events in the hot data phase for 7 days at the end of which moves the data to the warm phase, after 365 days in the warm phase the data is deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index lifecyle policy. This policy will keep the events in the hot data phase for 7 days. The data then moves to the warm phase. After 365 days in the warm phase, the data is deleted. 
```

+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
PUT _ilm/policy/tri_met_tracks
{
  "policy": {
    "phases": {
      "hot": {
        "min_age": "0ms",
        "actions": {
          "rollover": {
            "max_primary_shard_size": "50gb",
            "max_age": "7d"
          },
          "set_priority": {
            "priority": 100
          }
        }
      },
      "warm": {
        "min_age": "0d",
        "actions": {
          "set_priority": {
            "priority": 50
          }
        }
      },
      "delete": {

>         "min_age": "363d",

Reviewer 2: Should this be "365d" instead of "363d"? Why is 363 used?

Author: Great spot thank you.

        "actions": {
          "delete": {
            "delete_searchable_snapshot": true
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------

> . In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index template, which is configured to use datastreams:

Reviewer: Sorry, I didn't catch this before.  Data stream is two words.

```suggestion
. In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index template, which is configured to use data streams:
```

> . In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index template which is configured to use Datastreams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Console*, create the `tri_met_tracks` index template and configure it to use datastreams:
```

Author: This change would imply that the user would need to do something after creating the template

Reviewer: You're right.  I edited it to add a comma before "which".

            },
            "bearing": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "garage": {
              "type": "keyword"
            },
            "tripID": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "delay": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "extraBlockID": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "messageCode": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "lastStopSeq": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "location": {
              "type": "geo_point"
            },
            "time": {
              "index": true,
              "ignore_malformed": false,
              "store": false,
              "type": "date",
              "doc_values": true
            },
            "vehicleID": {
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "offRoute": {
              "type": "boolean"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "index_patterns": [
    "tri_met_tracks*"
  ],
  "data_stream": {
    "hidden": false,
    "allow_custom_routing": false
  },
  "composed_of": []
}
----------------------------------

> . In Console, Add the `tri_met_track` ingest pipeline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In **Console**, add the `tri_met_track` ingest pipeline. 
```

+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/tri_met_tracks
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "set": {
        "field": "trimet.inCongestion",
        "value": "false",
        "if": "ctx?.trimet?.inCongestion == null"
      }
    },
    {
      "convert": {
        "field": "trimet.bearing",
        "type": "float"
      }
    },
    {
      "convert": {
        "field": "trimet.inCongestion",
        "type": "boolean"
      }
    },
    {
      "script": {
        "source": "ctx['trimet']['location'] = ctx['trimet']['latitude'] + \",\" + ctx['trimet']['longitude']"
      }
    },
    {
      "script": {
        "source": "ctx['_id'] = ctx['trimet']['vehicleID'] + \"_\" + ctx['trimet']['time']",
        "description": "Generate documentID"
      }
    },
    {
      "remove": {
        "field": [
          "message",
          "input",
          "agent",
          "ecs",
          "host",
          "event",
          "trimet.longitude",
          "trimet.latitude"
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "set": {
        "field": "_index",
        "value": "tri_met_tracks"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----------------------------------

[float]

> ==== Step 2: Start Filebeat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Step 2: Start {filebeat}
```

> . Replace the contents within your `filebeat.yml` file with the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Replace the contents in your `filebeat.yml` file with the following:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------
filebeat.inputs:
# Fetch trimet bus data every minute.
- type: httpjson
  interval: 1m
  request.url: "https://developer.trimet.org/ws/v2/vehicles?appID=<tri_met_app_id>"
  response.split:
    target: body.resultSet.vehicle
  processors:
    - decode_json_fields:
        fields: ["message"]
        target: "trimet"

  pipeline: "tri_met_tracks"

# ---------------------------- Elastic Cloud Output ----------------------------
cloud.id: <cloud_id>
cloud.auth: <username:password>

----------------------------------

. Replace `<tri_met_app_id>` with your TriMet application id.
. Replace `<username:password>` with your Elastic Cloud deployment credentials.
. Replace `<cloud_id>` with your {ece}/ece-cloud-id.html[elastic cloud id].

> . Open a terminal window, and then navigate to the Filebeat folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open a terminal window, and then navigate to the {filebeat} folder.
```

> . In your `filebeat` folder, run Filebeat with the edited config:

Author: ```suggestion
. In your `filebeat` folder, run {filebeat} with the edited config:
```

+
[source,bash]
----------------------------------
/bin/filebeat -c filebeat.yml
----------------------------------

> . Wait for Filebeat to start shipping data to Elastic Cloud. Filebeat should not produce any output to stdout. 

Author: ```suggestion
. Wait for {filebeat} to start shipping data to Elastic Cloud. {filebeat} should not produce any output to stdout. 
```

> . Wait for Filebeat to start shipping data to Elastic Cloud, filebeat shouldn't produce any output to stdout. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Wait for Filebeat to start shipping data to Elastic Cloud. Filebeat should not produce any output to stdout. 
```

> . Leave the terminal window open and Filebeat running throughout this tutorial.

Author: ```suggestion
. Leave the terminal window open and {filebeat} running throughout this tutorial.
```
